Hi, I'm Karan.
I'm a security engineering
manager here at Google.
As part of my job, I do
participate in hiring candidates.
And so far I've spoken to like
hundreds of candidates,
potential candidates,
people who actually got into
Google. Almost every
time I meet somebody,
I get to see a new path.
And that's always fascinating for
me to learn about somebody else.
One thing I'm seeing
very interestingly is
the increase in the
number of people
who come from
non-technical backgrounds.
So that can be recruiting,
sales, like you name it,
we're seeing a ton of people.
So, for preparing for interviews,
I think you can break
down that question
into technical
preparation and
non-technical preparation.
And so for technical preparation,
I advise people to build up on, you know
networking fundamentals,
information security
fundamentals,
get all those concepts right,
so you understand
how things work,
how are they related,
and all of that.
Make sure you ask clarifying
questions to get to
the root of the problem and what
the interviewer wants from you.
A lot of people just dive into
the problem without
really clarifying.
If you don't know something,
don't be afraid to say,
"I don't know" and say,
but here's how I would
approach the problem.
For the non-technical pieces,
I think practice with a friend,
have an interview partner,
and see how you respond.
See where you fumble,
and be kind to yourself
as you're doing that.
Focus on bringing your whole
self to the interview.
So that means showcasing how
you'll work with a team.
Bring up examples of projects
you have done with others,
how you have led those projects?
Have you done open-source
collaborations?
A lot of these soft skills,
if I may put them as are super
crucial even when you're
solving a security problem.
So those are some key aspects
that we're looking
for when we are
interviewing for roles.
For new folks in the industry,
the main thing we would be
looking for is curiosity.
Personally speaking, I look
for people who have drive,
who are very driven to
learn more about the field,
they may not know everything
and we know that,
but we want to make sure
that they are asking
the right questions
and getting through
the problem by
working with others.
So, if you get an answer
like, I don't know,
but I'll figure it out, and
here's how, that's amazing.
Also, I'll say don't be
afraid of rejection,
because it takes time to
find your first role.
It took me hundreds of
applications to find my first job.
And then don't be afraid to
apply even if you don't meet
all the required or
preferred qualifications,
just look at the
minimum qualifications.
And if you do pass that, you know, it
doesn't hurt to apply.
So, please keep applying.